The goal of cloud computing is to allow users to take benefit from all of these technologies, without the need for deep knowledge about or 
expertise with each one of them. The cloud aims to cut costs and helps the users focus on their core business instead of
 being impeded by IT obstacles.[47] The main enabling technology for cloud computing is virtualization. Virtualization software separates
 a physical computing device into one or more "virtual" devices, each of which can be easily used and managed to perform computing tasks.
 With operating system–level virtualization essentially creating a scalable system of multiple independent computing devices, idle computing
 resources can be allocated and used more efficiently. Virtualization provides the agility required to speed up IT operations and reduces cost
 by increasing infrastructure utilization. Autonomic computing automates the process through which the user can provision resources on-demand.
 By minimizing user involvement, automation speeds up the process, reduces labor costs and reduces the possibility of human errors.[47]

Cloud computing uses concepts from utility computing to provide metrics for the services used. Cloud computing attempts to address QoS
 (quality of service) and reliability problems of other grid computing models.[47]

Cloud computing shares characteristics with:

Client–server model—Client–server computing refers broadly to any distributed application that distinguishes between service providers
 (servers) and service requestors (clients).[48]
Computer bureau—A service bureau providing computer services, particularly from the 1960s to 1980s.
Grid computing—A form of distributed and parallel computing, whereby a 'super and virtual computer' is composed of a cluster of networked,
 loosely coupled computers acting in concert to perform very large tasks.
Fog computing—Distributed computing paradigm that provides data, compute, storage and application services closer to the client or near-user 
edge devices, such as network routers. Furthermore, fog computing handles data at the network level, on smart devices and on the end-user
 client-side (e.g. mobile devices), instead of sending data to a remote location for processing.
Mainframe computer—Powerful computers used mainly by large organizations for critical applications, typically bulk data processing such as 
census; industry and consumer statistics; police and secret intelligence services; enterprise resource planning; and financial transaction 
processing.
Utility computing—The "packaging of computing resources, such as computation and storage, as a metered service similar to a traditional
 public utility, such as electricity."[49][50]
Peer-to-peer—A distributed architecture without the need for central coordination. Participants are both suppliers and consumers of resources 
(in contrast to the traditional client-server model).
Green computing
Cloud sandbox—A live, isolated computer environment in which a program, code or file can run without affecting the application in which it
 runs.