A database is a collection of information that is organized so that it can be easily accessed, managed and updated. 
Computer databases typically contain aggregations of data records or files, containing information 
about sales transactions or interactions with specific customers.

In a relational database, digital information about a specific customer is organized into rows, columns and tables which are
 indexed to make it easier to find relevant information through SQL or NoSQL queries. In contrast, a graph database uses nodes and
 edges to define relationships between data entries and queries require a special semantic search syntax.  As of this writing,
 SPARQL is the only semantic query language that is approved by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 

Typically, the database manager provides users with the ability to control read/write access, specify report generation and 
analyze usage. Some databases offer ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability) compliance to guarantee that data is 
consistent and that transactions are complete.

Types of databases
Databases have evolved since their inception in the 1960s, beginning with hierarchical and network databases, through the 1980s with 
object-oriented databases, and today with SQL and NoSQL databases and cloud databases.

In one view, databases can be classified according to content type: bibliographic, full text, numeric and images. In computing, databases 
are sometimes classified according to their organizational approach. There are many different kinds of databases, ranging from the most
 prevalent approach, the relational database, to a distributed database, cloud database, graph database or NoSQL database.

Relational database
A relational database, invented by E.F. Codd at IBM in 1970, is a tabular database in which data is defined so that it can be reorganized
 and accessed in a number of different ways.

Relational databases are made up of a set of tables with data that fits into a predefined category. Each table has at least one data category in a column, and each row has a certain data instance for the categories which are defined in the columns.

The Structured Query Language (SQL) is the standard user and application program interface for a relational database. Relational databases are easy to extend, and a new data category can be added after the original database creation without requiring that you modify all the existing applications.

Distributed database
A distributed database is a database in which portions of the database are stored in multiple physical locations, and in which processing is dispersed or replicated among different points in a network.