Sensors are advanced devices that are used to sense and react to signals, either electrical or optical.  A sensor translates the physical characteristic of the input into a signal which can be calculated electrically.  For example, the mercury in a glass thermometer expands and compresses the liquid in order to represent the calculated temperature, which can be viewed on the graduated glass tube.

 A sensor is a device which senses and reacts to some type of input from the physical environment.  Types of input are as follows: heat, light, moisture, motion, pressure, or any other environmental phenomenon.  The result is typically a signal that is either translated to human-readable display at the sensor location or sent electronically over a network for reading or further processing.

Properties of a Good Sensor
It is sensitive to the measured property.
It is sensitive to any other property likely to be encountered in its application.
It does not influence the measured property.
A sensor’s sensitivity specifies how much the sensor’s output varies in relation to the extent that the input quantity being measured varies.  For example, if the mercury in the thermometer moves 1 cm when the temperature varies by 1 C, the sensitivity can be represented as 1cm/C.

Examples of Sensors
The input is temperature in a mercury-based glass thermometer.  The liquid contained expands and compresses in response, making the level higher or lower on the marked gauge, which is human-readable.

An oxygen sensor in a car’s emission control system senses the gasoline / oxygen ratio, usually through a chemical reaction that produces a voltage.  A computer in the engine reads the voltage and, if the mixture is not ideal, readjusts the balance.

Motion sensors in various systems, including home security lights, automatic doors, and bathroom fixtures, typically transmit some type of energy like microwaves, ultrasonic waves, or light beams, and sense when the flow of energy is hampered by something entering its path.

A photosensor senses the presence of visible light, infrared transmission (IR), and / or ultraviolet (UV) energy.

Sensor Selection Criteria
Accuracy – measurements are expected to be accurate
Calibration – readings changes with time, so it should be regularly calibrated accordingly
Cost – should be within budget
Environmental condition – should comply with temperature or humidity limits
Range – should include clearly defined limits of measurement
Repeatability – variable readings should be repeatable under the same environment
Resolution – should be able to reliably sense the smallest increment
Sensor Classification
Primary input quantity
Transduction principles – fundamental criteria followed for an efficient approach
Material and Technology – usually chosen by a development engineering group
Property
Temperature – Thermistors, IC (Integrated Circuits)
Pressure – Fiber optic, LVDT (Linear Variable Differential Transformer)
Flow – Electromagnetic, Thermal mass
Level Sensors – Differential pressure, Thermal displacement
Proximity and displacement – Photoelectric sensors, Ultrasonic
Biosensors – Resonant mirrors, Surface plasmon resonance
Image – Charge coupled devices, CMOS (Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor)
Gas and chemical – Semiconductors, Conductance
Acceleration – Gyroscopes, Accelerometers
Others – Moisture sensors, Speed sensors
Application
Industrial process control, measurement, and automation
Non-industrial use – Aircraft, Automobiles
Power or Energy Supply Requirement
Active Sensor – requires power supply like LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging), Photoconductive cells
Passive Sensor – does not require a power supply: examples include Radiometers, Film photography sensors